---
title: Why is multi-stakeholder management needed?
layout: page
---

Today's accelerating networked world is getting **increasingly dynamic and difficult to predict**. New technologies, new professions, new opportunities, new challenges -- *new unknowns* -- seem to fall on us before we are able to figure out how to make sense of the current ones. **Traditional approaches** to strategic planning and management **are failing**. The sensible strategic planning horizon has shrinked from years to months and is still decreasing, rendering strategic planing both ineffective and inefficient. Plans become obsolete in no time. Traditional cycle of strategic and project management: *plan* \\(\rightarrow\\) *execute* \\(\rightarrow\\) *analyze* \\(\rightarrow\\) *correct* \\(\rightarrow\\) *re-plan* needs to make a full cycle at breakneck speed in order to be of any use. Actually, **uncertainty, unpredictability and complexity become major aspects** of our social, economic and business governance.

The most important implication of this trend is that **no single social actor** -- company, institution, organization or even government -- can single-handedly **exercise a significant control** of its own environment. This **environment is an ecology** of other companies, institutions, organizations and individuals, related via similar, competing or otherwise intersected interests. Most of the current stakeholders' management techniques were developed for ensuring efficient execution of strategic plans with the consideration of more or less stable network of stakeholders. In today's situation of accelerating change and complexity, these basic premises are no longer valid. Strategic plans do not provide clear directions, while the **network of stakeholders cannot be considered as stable** any more. 

Naturally, even a strategic direction or policy of any actor in a complex environment has to take into account **strategic directions and policies of a multiplicity of other actors**. Therefore, **multi-stakeholder management becomes the single most important factor for success** in today's unpredictable environment. This is especially true for organizations, institutions or programmes, which are intrinsically related to managing diverse interests, such as industry associations, networks, international organizations and/or governing bodies.

See <a href="{{ site.baseurl}}/content/what">what the art and the science of formulating a mess is all about.</a>